---
layout: post
title: "03-SE & Testing"
date:   2019-06-06
author: Faushine
tags: 
- C++
---
# SE & Testing

- correctness implies meeting (user) specification
a good test case is one that expose flaws in the code

- can use formal proofs of correctness, but this is hard

- testing is  hard: no unfailing algorithm to always find error, unconscious bias to protect code

- this is why the tester shouldn't also be the developer

- testing is an ongoing process; it starts before you code, goes on while coding , and continues in maintenance

- testing is a skill; experience helps

- testing is not debugging, you use testing to uncover bugs and check to see if you fixed then.

## Two main factors:

(1) human: look over code for flaws; walk-throughs or code inspections

(2) machine: run program on selected input, check against specification

=> a few, well chosen test cases are better than having many, poorly-chosen test cases.

=> can't test everything since #cases(usually) exponential

we generally divide cases into 3 types of testing

1. black box: don't know details of implementation, use psec, to guide test cases
2. white box: know code details; exercise all paths
=> focus most heavily on where bulk of work is done
3. grey box: know some details
start with black box test cases, supplement with cases not covered that come from white/grey box testing

- divide test cases into 'equivalence classes'; only need a few from eacj
  
- look at 'edge cases' - boundaries eg.month is 1-12, so 1, 12, 13
  
- 'corner cases' are combinations of edge cases eg. Feb.29 or Feb.28-leap year?
  
- extence cases (but don't get carried away)
eg. very large vs small data sets, or image

- this is where intuition matters-get a feeling for where common errors happen

## performance testing

is the program efficient enough?
eg. speed, memory, etc

- regression testing-makes sure new changes to program doesn't break old functionality

- never remove test cases, always add
relies on having test suites (collection of test cases) test scripts to automate

Q: read a file for input

exist?
empty?
responds on context
readable?

Q: sorting?

large vs small
ascending, descending, random

Q: ordered linked list?

empty or not?
beginning, middle or end as insertion points
duplicates

hello world

```bash
#include<stdio.h>   
int main(){
    printf("hello world]\n");
    return 0;
}

#include<iostream>
using namespace std;
int main(){
    std::cout<<"hello"<<"world"<<std::endl;
    return 0;
}
```

- must compile before can run
  
```bash
g++ hellp.cc 
# => a.out; run ./a.out
g++ -o hello hello.cc
g++ => g++-14 =? g++ -std=c++14
-g saves symbol table into needed by debugger
-wall
-wextrg
-werror
-wpedantic
```

see man gcc

- in c++, must to read before test for eof()(->try if end of file) or fail()(->eof or error)

    => good(): ! fail() && bad()

    => bad(): if true, stream is corrupted and all bets are off

- note that cin can be executed into a boolean value if (!cin) break; !cin is operator! 

    {return fail();}

